#summary Steps to install pypyodbc on PyPy and enable SQLAlchemy support

= !PyPy running SQLAlchemy with pypyodbc=

With the pure Python ODBC library, pypyodbc, by simply extending SQLAlchemy, !PyPy also can use SQLAlchemy. There are four steps to do so:

===Install pypyodbc for !PyPy===

  * *Step 1:* [https://code.google.com/p/pypyodbc/downloads/list Download PyPyODBC Source Package], unzip the package, then copy the file pypyodbc.py to the !PyPy instance's site-packages directory: !PyPy 1.9\Lib\site-packages.
  
  This installs pypyodbc for !PyPy. Now you can try if "*import pypyodbc*" succeeds in !PyPy's interactive window.

===Install SQLAlchemy for !PyPy===
You can skip this step if you know how to install SQLAlchemy for !PyPy. [https://pypi.python.org/pypi/SQLAlchemy Download SQLAlchemy Source Package], unzip the package, then just copy the sub-folder *sqlalchemy* located under the unzipped folder 'SQLAlchemy-0.7.10.tar\SQLAlchemy-0.7.10\lib\' to !PyPy instance's site-packages directory: !PyPy 1.9\Lib\site-packages.
  This installs pypyodbc for !PyPy. Now you can try if "*import sqlalchemy*" succeeds in !PyPy's interactive window.


===Extend SQLAlchemy drivers===
Then we simply extend SQLAlchemy so it can use the pypyodbc library installed in the steps above.

  * *Step 2:* Create a copy of !PyPy 1.9\Lib\site-packages\sqlalchemy\*connectors*\pyodbc.py and rename it to pypyodbc.py, then text replace all "pyodbc" to "pypyodbc" in the new pypyodbc.py.

  * *Step 3:* Create a copy of !PyPy 1.9\Lib\site-packages\sqlalchemy\*dialects*\mssql\pyodbc.py and rename it to pypyodbc.py, and then text replace all "pyodbc" to "pypyodbc" in the new pypyodbc.py.

  * *Step 4:* Modify !PyPy 1.9\Lib\site-packages\sqlalchemy\dialects\mssql\`__init__.py`, in the top import line, add *pypyodbc* after mxodbc, like this: 

{{{
from sqlalchemy.dialects.mssql import base, pyodbc, adodbapi, \ 
                                       pymssql, zxjdbc, mxodbc, pypyodbc
}}}

Now you can use SQLAlchemy with below code:
{{{
import sqlalchemy
engine = sqlalchemy.create_engine('mssql+pypyodbc://MSSQL_DSN')
for row in engine.execute('select * from aTable'):
    print (row)
}}}

<g:plusone size="tall"></g:plusone>