#Python Database Programming Quick Start Tutorial.

Today, I would use a simple sales database programing case to guide the interested readers the entry-level Python database programming techniques. We will use Python to create a simple MS-Access sales database, using Python ODBC interface to insert and delete sales records, and lastly, query the data in the Access database. Below are the main steps we will be programming step-by-step through:
  # Introduce and install Python & an ODBC module pypyodbc;
  # Create an Access database and a sales table in this database;
  # Record sales transactions by inserting records in the table;
  # Use Python to query data in the database and compress the MS-Access database file.

Ready? Let's begin!

===1) Introduce and install Python & an ODBC module pypyodbc===
The Python install package can be downloaded in www.python.org . For this tutorial, we need to download Python version. Although it is a programming platform, like ordinary program, you just need to choose a local installation path to install Python, and then you can just press the "Next" all the way to complete the installation.

_- Some people may ask, why not choose the latest Python 3.X ? Today (January 20, 2013) my point of view: If you want to quickly start to develope real world system in Python, then right now you should choose Python 2.7. Python 3.X is, without doubt, the future direction. However, as the 3.X versions do not have good backward compatibility, many function libraries that can be used in Python 2.X module, as of today still can not be used in Python 3.X, for example, in this tourial, the pypyodbc module that we will use to connect and operate with ODBC. The bread and milk of Python 3.x are in preparation, but it will take a little more time._